Ade is a reporter who has limited use of his arms. He has several strategies for navigating 
websites, including using his palm to operate a joystick, using one finger to press keys on the 
keyboard, which allows him to move up and down the page and tab from link to link, and more 
recently, using speech recognition. All of these methods, however, have drawbacks. When using 
the joystick, it is hard to click on small targets such as placing the cursor between words or at 
the end of a sentence. When using the keyboard, it’s sometimes hard to know which page 
element has focus, plus the order of links often doesn’t match what he sees when looking at the 
page. Speech recognition has promise but it involves a whole new way of working to someone 
who is used to typing. So that Ade can switch from one method to another, it is important to 
make sure links and other page elements have visual focus indicators and match the order that 
they appear on the page and that content flows correctly when the site is zoomed to make 
everything appear larger.


Ian is a data entry clerk who is autistic. Digital technology is generally easy for Ian, until 
something unexpected happens like a software update that affects parts of the system he has to 
work with. This causes Ian extreme anxiety. Outside of work, Ian likes to cook and uses recipe 
videos he finds online. Whether using his computer at work or at home, plain language and 
consistent navigation and page layouts are important. If something changes as the result of an 
update, it is best to tell Ian what has changed and give him time to adjust. Also, like many 
people with cognitive and learning disabilities, pop-up ads and videos that start playing 
automatically are frustrating and confusing.


Ilya is a senior accountant who is blind. She relies on a screen reader to announce the content in 
the software she uses at work and she uses a standard keyboard to enter commands to navigate 
and enter information. Recently Ilya’s company migrated from desktop software to online 
applications, some of which present barriers for Ilya, such as when images don’t include 
alternative text or short-cut keys conflict with the screen reader commands. Other sources of 
frustration include multiple levels of navigation (e.g., nested menus), forms that don’t make it 
clear to the screen reader what the fields are meant to contain, and visual CAPTCHA with either 
no or a poor auditory alternative. Ilya really likes using her mobile phone and tablet because of 
the built-in screen reader functionality, plus their portability. When away from home, Ilya can 
find directions, pay for things, and keep up with her family and friends via email and text.


Lexie is an older adult who loves online shopping and fantasy football. Lexie cannot see all 
colors equally well. Websites and apps that rely on colors alone present barriers for Lexie. Using 
color alone to highlight text and to indicate areas in a chart also present barriers for Lexie but 
fortunately her work colleagues have learned ways for using other visual markers in addition to 
color.


Sophie, a mother with Down syndrome, works at her local library. She would like an office job 
but is hesitant to apply because she will have to learn new websites and software that may not 
be written in language she can understand, for example using unfamiliar words, as well as 
acronyms and abbreviations. Consistency, writing in plain language, and having small 
paragraphs of information all help Sophie comprehend written content. Outside of work, Sophie 
likes to take her kids to basketball games and has found that buying tickets using the venue’s 
app is easier because there are fewer options and less clutter.


Dhruv is a student who is deaf. Because his first, or native, language is sign language, Dhruv has 
difficulty reading content that is not well structured with consistent layout and navigation. At his 
university, many of the lectures are being posted online. This can present a barrier to Dhruv if 
the videos don’t contain captions or if the captions have mistakes or lag behind what the 
lecturer is saying. In his free time, Dhruv likes to watch movies and TV shows on his mobile 
device. These must contain accurate captions and also be coded so that he knows who is 
speaking.


Marta is a marketing assistant who was born profoundly deaf and is now progressively losing 
her vision. For now, she can magnify her computer screen in order to see the content but as her 
eyesight continues to deteriorate, she will need to learn new ways of interacting with the 
computer. Marta is learning braille and hopes to use her new braille display for reading, writing, 
and navigating applications. In addition, the braille display includes some often-used apps such 
as a calendar, email, and notes. This will be handy for whenever she is away from home. Marta 
is taking classes in fashion design and knows she will need to discuss her unique needs with the 
college since she will likely need class materials to be available on her braille display.


Stefan is a student who has dyslexia and attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD). Stefan 
finds it hard to maintain focus on his schoolwork, especially when reading a lot of dense text or 
following written instructions. He likes digital textbooks and websites that allow him to use text-
to-speech software because he can follow both the written and auditory words. It’s important 
though that websites and other digital technology use plain language, a consistent layout, and 
don’t display pop-up ads or moving images, which are very distracting and confusing. Mobile 
apps and websites are often less cluttered and easier to use. 


Elias is an 85-year-old retired architect. Over the years, Elias has experienced a decrease in 
vision, hearing, and short-term memory and he has a slight hand tremor. He uses digital 
technology for all sorts of activities including staying in touch with family, reading the news and 
architecture articles, and ordering groceries. However, using technology can be difficult when 
he can't use the adjustments he needs, like when sites and apps don't allow increased text size, 
require clicking small areas of the page, and make him type information with each visit rather 
than store it.


